Hello everyone, and welcome to the
Timeit Module lecture.
So in this lecture we'll learn about timing your code
and how to use the timeit module to do that.
So, first thing you're gonna want to do is check out
this Jupyter notebook.
We go over two methods: importing timeit, which is how
you would use the module in standard Python,
and then we'll also look at a bit of magic functions
that we can use in Jupyter with iPython.
Okay, so let's go ahead and hop over to the live code.
So the first thing you're gonna need to do is
import
timeit.
Alright, so now that it's imported, what we're gonna do is
use timeit to time various methods of creating the string
that looks like this,
So I want to create a string that looks zero dash one
dash two dash three dash all the way to dash 99.
So we're gonna use a bunch of different methods to
make that string, so one way we can do it,
is by saying
join
oops, .join
the string N,
for N in range 100.
Okay.
So that's exactly the kind of string we want.
So what's this doing here?
It's saying for every N in that range, zero to 99,
go ahead and convert that integer to a string,
and then join it with a dash in between.
Alright so what we want to do is now time this method.
So now that we've imported the timeit module,
what we're gonna do is say
timeit.timeit
and what you do is you pass your entire expression,
whatever it happens to be, as a string here.
And then the second argument is the number of times
you'll want to run this.
So I'm gonna run it, let's say, 10,000 times.
If you don't do enough times, it will be too fast
to get an accurate comparison to different methods.
Okay, so this method took about .248 seconds
and it's gonna be different depending on how fast
your computer is.
So don't be worried if you don't get numbers
exactly like mine.
Now let's try doing a different method
with list comprehension.
So we basically did a four loop in essence here,
and what we're gonna do now is try list comprehension.
So I'm gonna say try joining here and add the brackets
to make it the list comprehension.
Let's go ahead and run this, let's actually run it,
let's run this as a separate line so we can keep everything
in site.
So I'll run it as a list comprehension here,
and notice it was a little bit faster,
and what we're gonna do now, finally, is try using
the map function.
So what I'm gonna do is say
.join, and I'm going to map the string function
to every number from the range zero up to 100,
and then what we're gonna do is pass that in as a string,
itself, into timeit.
Timeit, timeit.
And the number of times I want this to run again,
number equals 10,000 times.
Alright, now notice by far, map is the most efficient way,
so we can see that there's a significant time difference
using the map function.
So this is good to know, you should keep it in mind,
but this is the way you would generally use timeit
in your own code if you weren't working
in a Jupyter notebook.
Now if you're working in the Jupyter notebook, the best
way to do this is using Python's built-in magic,
so we discussed built-in magic a little bit when
we were going over Jupyter notebooks.
But basically built-in magic is defined by a percentage sign
and it basically has timeit built in,
so what I'm going to say is timeit,
and then just copy this methods,
and you don't need to pass in the strings anymore.
And the interesting thing about timeit is what it's gonna do
it's gonna perform the same code in that line
a certain number of times,
so it's gonna do it through a couple loops.
So in this case, it did it through 10,000 loops,
and then it'll report back the best of three.
So in this case, the best was 28.9 microseconds per loop.
Now remember in this case, with timeit timeit,
it's telling you the total time it took to perform
all 10,000 of those, which makes sense if you see, woops,
10,000 times whatever this number, or, this number divided
by 10,000 and then you have microseconds.
Alright, moving along, let's go ahead and use the
magic function to test out the rest of these.
So, magic percentage sign timeit, and in this case,
I'm going to check the list comprehension.
And then what's really nice about using this magic function
is that it gives you a better idea of how long it's
actually taking to perform, on average, the command.
With this normal timeit method, you have to kind of decide
a large number of times to perform it, and you don't get
a good idea of how long each individual time is going.
And if you're just doing one here, on the number,
you probably won't get an accurate average,
unlike timeit here, and now notice,
this is when a magic function is really great.
Here when we ran it with map, since map was so much faster
than the other methods, Jupyter iPython ran it
100,000 times through 100,000 loops instead of just 10,000.
So you'll notice if something takes a really long time
to run, the Jupyter iPython may just run it
three times, if it takes many seconds to run.
If it's very fast, it will run it more times,
to get a better average.
But basically we arrived at the same conclusion,
the map function was the fastest method of them all.
Now like I said before, iPython will limit the amount
of real time it will spend on its timeit procedure.
So if you're running 100,000 loops, that would've taken
10 minutes, iPython's automatically going to reduce
the number of loops to something more reasonable, like
100 or 1000, depending on how long it actually takes.
Okay, so as always, there's a Jupyter notebook
with a more comprehensive breakdown of what's going on.
And you can check out the documentation here for the
timeit library, but go ahead and check out that link,
and you can learn about a couple more methods and timers
to use.
Alright, that's it as far as using timeit to time your code.
I will see you at the next lecture.